SQL Toolz Revision History.

v1.45  2002-08-30

Fixed keyboard copy and paste on the Results Grid and the Schema Tree.

Implemented a few more features and options in the editor.  These are on
a new tab in the Options window.
    Allow you to change the auto-indent type (none, previous line, or sql scope)
    Higlight Current Line (puts a yellow highlight)
    Restrict cursor to text (You can now un-restrict it)
    Tab size
    Convert tabs to spaces while typing
    Print in Color
    
Added the current line and current column to the status bar.

Added support for the Windows popup menu key in the Results Grid and 
Schema Tree.

Added ability to print contents of the Command Window.  This is pretty basic,
and prints in fixed width 10 pt Courier New.  Option to print in color is
also available on the Editor tab on the Options dialog.

Added ability to make a backup .bak file on save.  The file extension is 
replaced with a .bak extension.

v1.42  2002-06-02

Replaced editing control for the Command Window.  This is a big change
that allows the command window to be more useful editing files, as opposed
to just working with ad-hoc sql.  New features in the command window
include:
    Color syntax highlighting
    Indentation based on previous line
    Unlimited Undo and Redo
    Find and Replace
    Go To Line
    Go To Matching Brace
    Bookmarks
    Tabs to Spaces
    Spaces to Tabs
    Show Tabs and Spaces
    Change to Lower Case
    Change to Upper Case
    Capitalize current word
    Increase Indent
    Decrease Indent
    Transpose Characters
    Transpose Words
    Transpose Lines
    Comment Block
    Uncomment Block
    Line Numbers
    Ability to split the control horizontally

Added server name to the titlebar.  This makes it easier
to identify the database server in the task bar and when using 
alt+tab.  All info still in the status bar

Changed hotkey for History window to Ctrl+I

Modified File Save As to allow you to save a file with a different name,
even if it hasn't been modified.

Added ability to open a file via the command line.  The filename should include
the entire path to the file, and if their are any spaces, the filename must 
be passed in double quotes.
    Example:  sqltoolz.exe "C:\Program Files\SQLToolz\SQL Toolz.Log"

Changed the comment delimiter written to the log file if date/time logging
is enabled from "--" to a pair of "/* */".  This is to deal with the 
block uncommenting features of the Command Window.

v1.39 2002-05-17

Changed use of SYS.SYSUSERPERM to SYS.SYSUSERPERMS in internal
sql.  'PUBLIC' does not have default select rights on SYSUSERPERM, 
but does on SYSUSERPERMS.

Turned off debugging switch left on in previous version.

v1.38 2002-05-12

Yes, it has been a long time.  Updated to Visual Basic 6.

Added index ddl extraction.  This also handles unique constraints.
The index ddl extraction does not do hash size or dbspace.  Maybe
at a later time.

Added index ddl extraction to the table ddl extraction.  This does
not do hash sizes or dbspace.  Maybe at a later time.

Added permission extraction to the table ddl extraction.

Added permission extraction to the view ddl extraction.

Added permission extraction to the procedure ddl extraction.

Wrapped misc table, column, view and procedure ddl extraction in quotes.
This is to deal with reserved words.

Increased the size of the Messages window from 500 lines to 2000.

v1.22 1999-06-13

Various small fixes and testing to enable SQL Toolz to work reliably
with Adaptive Server Anywhere.

Fixed a problem with long varchar columns.  Retrieves of long varchar
columns were causing various errors, resulting in no data returned.
This issue appeared in 5.5.04 after updating ODBC to 3.510.3711.0.  It
also appeared in ASA 6.0.2.

Changed the objects which fall under 'System Objects' when filtering 
them out.  Now, any object owned by SYS, dbo, or with a name like 
'%java.%' will be filtered as a system object.  Most of these issues 
where discovered when testing with ASA 6.0.02.

Added 'Clear' option to pop-up menu for the Results Grid.  This is a
quick way to clear out the contents of the Grid.

v1.21 1999-05-02

Added date and time formats for Y2K issues.  SQL Toolz has always
been Y2K compliant, but there was no way to control the grid display
format for dates and times.  Now date and time formats can be set
from the General Tab of the Options Window.

Added a date/time stamp to the log file.  This option is found on the
Database Tab of the Options Window.

v1.20 1999-03-03

Fixed a Commit problem.  When an error occured during a commit,
immediately executing a commit after the error would not cause the app
to generate the error message again.  The error condition would still
exist, but it would not be displayed.

Added printing of Results Window.

Added logging of Command Window commands.  This option is found on the
Database Tab of the Options Window.  A toolbar button was also added
to turn this option on and off.

Removed 'Execute ' and 'Call ' from app for direct execution. These
should be added to direct.txt if required.  These had been added in
1.14.  They have been removed so that procedures executed with the
'Execute' or 'Call' statement can return a result set.  If these are
added to direct.txt, any procedures called in this manner will NOT
return a result set.

Added an error trap for error 521 caused by the clipboard being
unavailable.  5 tries will be made to access the clipboard before
and error msg is displayed.

Changed text highlighting in the Command Window.  Now, when the
Command Window looses the focus, any hightlighted text will remain
highlighted. This makes it much easier to see where text from the
Quick List or Results Window will be pasted.

Added title bars above the Command Window and the Results Window.
Since higlighting stays on in the controls, even when they do not have
focus, I needed a way to indicate the active window. The title bars
use the same color scheme as the system active window title bar and
inactive window title bars.

Made Find Window non-modal.

Added Find Next menu option.

Added the ability to disable the splash screen shown at startup.  This
can speed up load time on slower machines. This option is found on the
General Tab of the Options window.

Altered Schema Tree for Float, Real, and Double data types. These were
displayed with a precision and scale, which is incorrect.

Altered DDL generation for Float, Real, and Double data types. These
data types were generated with a precision and scale, which is
incorrect.

Altered Schema Tree to show default and check values on user-defined
types.

Fixed Schema Tree to show Null/Not Null on user-defined types. It
would show Not Null, but would not show Null.

v1.14 1998-12-27

Changed the Schema Tree to show Null/Not Null on user- defined types
in Columns.

Added the ability to generate Update and Delete statements from the
Schema Tree.

Added the ability to extract the DDL of Tables, Views, Procedures, and
Triggers.

Fixed a problem with stored procedure execution.  If a stored
procedure that did not return any columns was run as part of a batch,
an error would occur, and no dialog box would notify the user.  The
warning would be recorded in the Messages Window, and the batch would
stop at that point.  If the stored procedure returned any columns,
even if it returned no rows, the batch would execute correctly.  Now,
the warning will still be logged in the Messages Window, but the batch
will continue.

The QuickList hotkey support was enhanced.  The Schema Tree now
supports ctrl-c and ctrl-v.  The History Window now supports ctrl-c,
ctrl-v and DEL.

Added the ability to change the style of the font in the Command
Window and the Results Grid to Regular, Italic, Bold, or Bold Italic.

Re-arranged the tabs on the Options Window to put the Database options
on the first tab.

Removed 'Grant ', 'Revoke ', and 'Truncate Table ' from direct.txt and
incorporated them in app.  Added 'Execute ' and 'Call ' to app.

v1.03 1998-12-16

The Options Window was changed to use the common dialog for font
selection.  Prior to this change, if there were a large number of
fonts installed on the system, loading the Options Window took quite
some time, as all available fonts were read from the system.

Corrected incorrect website information.

v1.02 1998-12-13

In the Schema Tree, the "Paste Execute Statement" option was not
parsing the columns correctly, and was including extra commas. Extra
parameters were being added to the execute statement.  Now only In or
InOut parameters are included.

ShowPlan function for SQL Anywhere modified to display the plan before
starting the execution.  For long queries, the Messages Window was not
repainting to allow you to see the plan during execution.

Added website information to helpfile.

v1.01 1998-12-08

Cursor Driver added to Options Window.  This was a command line option
before, but now it has been moved to the options tab. Default is use
the Server Cursor, but ODBC Cursor is available. When dealing with
return sets dealing with only one column of Long Varchar, an error
would be raised if the ODBC Cursor was used (this was the original
default). This kept the Plan function from working properly.  Also,
'set rowcount' does not always work correctly on select queries with
the Server Cursor driver.  ODBC Cursor driver works correctly in this
condition. See help file for further information.

Second tab added to options window to split General Options and
Database Options.

Tab key behavior fixed in Command Window.  The Command Window will now
treat the tab character as a tab instead of loosing focus.

Direct.txt was marked as read only.  This has been changed.

v1.00 1998-12-06 Initial Release

SQL Toolz Copyright 1998-2002 Larry W. Stavinoha
http://www.stavinoha.com/pub/sqltoolz.htm
